---
layout: post
title: Codex
date: 2019-10-14
category: DND
tags: [World Building, Ire]
---

Like all things, the Rule of Law exists as a physical place within the universe. In fact, Existing was one of the first laws ever Instantiated. It’s a real pickle honestly because, without the Law of Existence, there should be nothing to instantiate the Law of Existence. Makes you wonder really… but let’s try not to think about it too much, shall we? This realm of Law is known as Codex, It’s administrator is known as The Watchmaker, and with his brilliant mechanical mind, he instantiates all reality within Codex. Once instantiated, these rules are stored into the endless history of change known as the Great Repository.

Across the endless clockwork horizon of Codex, Modrons skitter and scurry, executing The Watchmaker’s lavish design. Like any good administrator, The Watchmaker knows many hands make light work, and automation is the key to efficiency. Often the work of a Modron is the simple maintenance of Codex’s many Classes, Methods, and Properties. There are many legacy constructs within the endless realm of Codex, and much of the work involves refactoring their design to conform to The Watchmaker’s vision. The “Law of Unintended Consequences” makes this work tricky, however. The Watchmaker has considered removing the law to expedite the efforts of his Modrons but due in part to its existence, it remains to be seen what disaster might come of a world with only “Intended Consequences”, and so the law remains. 

It is not often that a new Law is instantiated and then pushed to the Great Repository, but when it happens it is a glorious time for The Watchmaker and his Modron. All work halts and an army of Modrons converge to build the great winding gears that make up the logic of whatever new Law is being instantiated. Typically I would say this is an act that can take a considerable amount of time, however, Codex is not subject to the Law of Time. That is one of the perks of being its administrator, you can allow for exceptions… in the name of “effecency” of course, except for the “Law of Unintended Consequences”. A real bugger that law is.   

I believe the most recent law to be instantiated was the Law of Murphy, its rules codified by a previous iteration of The Watchmaker. Its structure and style wreak of ‘inadequacy’ according to the current Watchmaker. However, after several attempts to refactor its design had failed, it was concluded that it was ‘working as intended’ and need not any changes. 

<hr>
Codex is my version of Mechanus in the DND world I'm working on. One of the many planes of existance found within the universe.